# 数据交互方式
CRUD: Create, Read, Update, Delete
# 函数数据处理流程
1. **Adapt**: handle input format: raise error and unify the format
2. **Extract**: prepare necessary data: based on the input, get all necessary information
3. **Transform**: execute core algorithm: process information
4. **Load**: handle output format
  
Be generous about external inputs (user inputs and inputs from other library): external input format should be comprehensive
Be strict about internal inputs and all outputs: internal input and all output format should be exactly specified.
# 解决问题流程
1. Understand the issue:
    1.1 With the Biz team: What is the issue from clients’ perspective? What are the expected outcomes?
    1.2 With the Dev team: What does this issue mean technically? What are the resources we already have? What are the possible solutions, pros and cons?
    1.3 With the Biz team, again: Which solution is the best?
2. Think through the solution:
    2.1 Learn necessary libraries/dependencies. Go back to 1.2 if need be.
    2.2 Divide the tasks into several testable parts
3. Implement the solution while testing it step by step
4. Clean up the code
# 问题排查流程
Goal: runnable --> correctness --> scalability
Work loop: setup --> run --> check log --> reset

Runnable: Make minimum change incrementally from the correct version to the bugged version (or the other way)
Correctness: Run with a simple but bugged example, check the _input/output_ of each function. Inside the bugged function, check for each step. Inside each step, print variables used in _loop invariant_.

Two-factor error:
Consider two parts of the code A, B. Given A and B ⇒ Error, we debug as following:
```python
if not A and not B ⇒ Error:
	A and B are irrelevant, check other codes
else if A and not B ⇒ Error:
	A is buggy, fix A then check
else if B and not A ⇒ Error:
	B is buggy, fix B then check
else:
	A and B together cause the bug
```